# Lab C03 Group (2020-21) :rocket:

This repo is made to hold all the code and data generated by lab experiments.

there are two branches: `master` and `working-on`. The latter is currently being used for new 
insertion, and active development, while the former is a sort of 'archive' for past lab experiences.

## Usage :gear:

This repo should be manteined up-to-date with latest experiments and data.

There is a `./esperienza_#__<title>` folder for each one lab. experience. Those are then divided 
as described in README for each sub-directory. 

The `setup.py` file is meant to be used to create the base project for a lab. experience.
To run [setup.py](setup.py) use `python3 setup.py <OPTIONAL: expNumber_title>`

## Requirements :toolbox:

Software needed to use this repos is listed below:

- `root`, An open-source data analysis framework used by high energy physics and others, developed by CERN (currently using `v6.22/06` to run code);
- `stat` custom library (Currently `v1.0`). Run as `g++ -o <exe_name> <program.cpp> stat.cpp`.
<!-- - `numpy` Python library is only needed in order for the [setup.py](setup.py) program to work.  -->

Future code might need other libraries, that will be eventually be written here.

## Stat Library :floppy_disk:

`stat` is a `C++` library made exclusevely to compute statistical average and standard error.
It is located in [`stat/stat.h`](stat/stat.h).

***Library Usage***

This library is just a piece of code written to semplificate some computing, eventually it need 
to be implemented in the code.

* `stat::read_values()` takes a `stdin::vector` as input, whereas the vector contain all data needed
 in calculation.

* `stat::avg()` return average of elements in the `vector`.

* `stat::std_err()` return standard error computed from RMS (Root Minimimum Square).

* `stat::clear()` is needed to clean up the data vector, in order to compute other data. 

Changelog
---------
**2021-02-01** changelog init;

**2021-02-01 12:50** modified [setup.py](setup.py) to include `\graphicspath{{../fig/}}` as main graphics path

**2021-02-11** modified [setup.py](setup.py) to use template.tex file for latex template creation instead of inline comments.
Uploaded latex template.tex file, serve as master file. 
Merged `working-on` branch on `master`. Removed old code from `esperienza_3_Moto_Proiettile`; added Changelog to 
README file. Uploaded .tex and .pdf file for e4 relazione.
Uploaded .ipynb file for testing purposes, removed in gitignore.

**2021-02-13** made all code easier to read; all standard strings made accessible in header as costant, so they
cannot be modified. Added dict to [setup.py](setup.py) to hold all log messaging strings.

**2021-02-15** made possible for new directories to auto-number themselves. spaces in `title_underscore` now become
 `_` automatically. 

**2021-02-16** Merged branch `working-on` in branch `master`. Added ipynb ignore file to .gitignore;
Made all Important variable constants, and all those constant are initialized in the file header.
Added ipynb ignore file to .gitignore;
Updated the input method, now supporting error handling notification if something goes wrong.
Removed test.ipynb testing enviroment.
Updated Changelog with every commit.
